docs/installation/local-installation/local-installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Local Installation
description: 'How to set up Agenta on your local computer'
---

<Note> This guide helps you install Agenta on your local machine. If you're looking to set it up on a server for multiple users, head over to [this guide](/installation/self-hosting/). </Note>

# Installing Agenta locally
To install Agenta, you need first to install the python package containing both the SDK and the CLI. Then, you need to install the web platform.

<Accordion title="What's Inside Agenta">
Agenta consists of several integrated components, all stored in the same repository:
- The SDK: A Python package for interacting with the Agenta platform in your applications.
- The CLI: A command line interface for running and testing LLM applications on the web platform.
- The web platform: A browser-based interface for testing your LLM applications (features a Next.js frontend and a Python backend).
</Accordion>

## Prerequisites

You'll need Docker installed on your machine. If you don't have it yet, download and install it from [here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).


## Installing the SDK and CLI

Use pip to install the SDK and CLI easily:

```bash
pip install agenta
```

<Info>Please see [contributing](/contributing/development-mode) for more information on how to install the SDK and CLI in developement mode.</Info>

<Tip>Agenta is under continuous developement, don't forget to always upgrade to the latest version of agenta using `pip install -U agenta`.</Tip>

## Setting Up the Web Platform

### 1. Clone the Repository and Navigate to the Folder

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Agenta-AI/agenta.git
cd agenta
```

### 2. Launch the Agenta Server

```bash
docker compose -f "docker-compose.yml" up -d --build
```

### 3. Verify the Installation

Open your browser and go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). If you see the Agenta web interface, you're good to go.


<Warning> Common issue: port conflicts. Make sure ports 80 and 3000 are not being used by other applications when you run Docker Compose. To free up resources, you can run docker system prune. </Warning>

## What's next?
You're all set to start using Agenta!

<Card title="Well Done!" icon="check" iconType="duotone" color="#29B772" href="/usage/first-steps">
Click here to build your first LLM app in just 1 minute.
</Card>

Commit message:

update docs with tip to add encryption key

docs/installation/local-installation/local-installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Local Installation
description: 'How to set up Agenta on your local computer'
---

<Note> This guide helps you install Agenta on your local machine. If you're looking to set it up on a server for multiple users, head over to [this guide](/installation/self-hosting/). </Note>

# Installing Agenta locally
To install Agenta, you need first to install the python package containing both the SDK and the CLI. Then, you need to install the web platform.

<Accordion title="What's Inside Agenta">
Agenta consists of several integrated components, all stored in the same repository:
- The SDK: A Python package for interacting with the Agenta platform in your applications.
- The CLI: A command line interface for running and testing LLM applications on the web platform.
- The web platform: A browser-based interface for testing your LLM applications (features a Next.js frontend and a Python backend).
</Accordion>

## Prerequisites

You'll need Docker installed on your machine. If you don't have it yet, download and install it from [here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).


## Installing the SDK and CLI

Use pip to install the SDK and CLI easily:

```bash
pip install agenta
```

<Info>Please see [contributing](/contributing/development-mode) for more information on how to install the SDK and CLI in developement mode.</Info>

<Tip>Agenta is under continuous developement, don't forget to always upgrade to the latest version of agenta using `pip install -U agenta`.</Tip>

## Setting Up the Web Platform

### 1. Clone the Repository and Navigate to the Folder

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Agenta-AI/agenta.git
cd agenta
```

<Tip> (Optional) If you'd like to customise the encryption key you can use to generate API Keys for developing locally, go to the `docker-compose.yml` file and replace the `ENCRYPTION_KEY` environmental variable with a 32 character string of your choice or you can generate one from [here](https://fernetkeygen.com).</Tip>

### 2. Launch the Agenta Server

```bash
docker compose -f "docker-compose.yml" up -d --build
```

### 3. Verify the Installation

Open your browser and go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). If you see the Agenta web interface, you're good to go.


<Warning> Common issue: port conflicts. Make sure ports 80 and 3000 are not being used by other applications when you run Docker Compose. To free up resources, you can run docker system prune. </Warning>

## What's next?
You're all set to start using Agenta!

<Card title="Well Done!" icon="check" iconType="duotone" color="#29B772" href="/usage/first-steps">
Click here to build your first LLM app in just 1 minute.
</Card>
